
# The OnexOS app description

OnexOS is going to enable an open 3D universe, filled with regular people like families,
co-creating and exploring each others virtual places and worlds.

Everything we all make in OnexOS is in a *single* seamless, unbounded universe, shared
by all of us.

You build everything in the OnexOS universe from simple coloured cubes and panels that
can have text or images on them.

With just these basic starting materials you can build a house, then a street with your
family and friends, then a city with other families. Leave messages around in the family
virtual home kitchen, then collect those onto a to-do pinboard. Start up a chatroom
between families but then meet in a virtual room to chat as well. Put up billboards with
text and images on them around the city describing upcoming meetings or events. Or signs
pointing the way to landmarks. Put in a library on the high street full of documents you
each create - like favourite recipes or music reviews. Next to that, a large city
gallery with many rooms with everyone's favourite photos. Create a warehouse store full
of 3D objects to share with others, like plants, tables, trees, rocks, houses, castles.
You can create a pretty tree on a little hill, then multiply that up to a forest on a
mountain. And, of course, attach that mountain to the back of your city. If you visit
another city made by a different group of folk, and like it, tell the other families in
the chat room about it, then if everyone in each city agrees, you can all co-create a
highway through the hills to join the two cities up.

Everything you build stays owned by you, on your own device. You get to decide who can
see or who can change your stuff: your objects can be set up to be seen only by your
family or by the public. You can set up a family photo wall, or a message board or to-do
list in a virtual family room, that are all shared just over the family WiFi. You can
share objects or glue objects together directly between your family's devices.  There's
no account set-up, and no adverts (unless someone creates a billboard somewhere!). You
can all just jump in and start co-creating!

____________________________________



