_This is a description of what I'm working on now, not what the app does yet!_

# LinkCraft

LinkCraft is an Android app enabling you to create your own virtual world with both 3D
and 2D objects. You can build 3D objects and places like tables, rooms or galleries, and
write and post 2D photos, notes and documents around in them.

With LinkCraft you can create vast virtual worlds of creative, fun or beautiful 3D (and
2D) interactive, calm or fun experiences. Cities, forests, creativity rooms and castles.
It's an endless world of whatever stuff you like.


### What's novel about it?

It's like Minecraft Creative, but instead of mainly being about blocks, it's mainly
about "links".

LinkCraft links form handles or hooks onto all of your objects in the world. Every
single 3D object you create or see in the world has a link and can be sewn, pinned, tied
and snapped together with everything else by their links. And then re-snapped and
"re-mashed" with anything else.

Petals to flowers, vases on tables, rooms in houses, streets of cities. Also photos in
notes and paragraphs in documents.

Everything can be pointed to, picked up, reused and saved via its link.

Everything you make is in a single unbounded, linked-up world, so you can re-use,
re-mash and re-purpose anything, and join all of your spaces, buildings and games
together in new ways, sharing materials or entire constructions between your creations,
just through the power of pervasive links.


### Give some examples!

You can link from the back of your virtual garden to a city you've built. It will appear
right there, and you can then just walk across into it. If you want to be able to walk
back again, you'll need a link back! (Otherwise, use the back button.) There's no fixed
grid, you are completely in control of the topology of your world.

You can save links to anything you see for later use, like a whole castle, a tower, or a
brick in the tower. You can save the link to a leaf you made, then use it repeatedly all
over a tree. You can grab a link to just the top of a tower you've made, and dot that
mini-tower around your castle. If you pin a flag to one tower, it appears on all; if you
change the colour of the leaf to red in the autumn, all instances will change at once.
(Of course, you can also make copies.)

You can link from a document to any image or text paragraph you like, including from
other documents, or images on the walls of a gallery. In fact, a document is just a
scrollable sequence of objects: so you can create a "document" from a sequence of 3D
objects like your favourite plants! You can put up a 2D sign that has a teleport link
to a forest village. You can pin 2D notes to your 3D walls. You could create your own
huge warehouse store full of (links to) your favourite 3D objects to use later.

Things in this world have physical properties: every house you make can have doors and
windows that swing open and shut. You can build a wheeled buggy to jump into, that can
roll faster and faster down the street from the top of the hill.  Make a game of
skittles or a game where you try to build a tower without it falling over. Because
there's only one world, you can just sew these together into a game park, where the
skittle balls can also knock over the tower.

You can actually put in a special link from a door object to a button object so that
pushing or standing on the button opens the door.


### What would I use the 3D world for?

Mainly creative fun, or to organise your thoughts. You can use your world as a thinking
space, a creative space, or an organising space.

You can quickly and easily create beautiful or imaginative places and spaces. Make a
chill-out room with coloured lights and soft-coloured walls. Build your ideal house,
then a street of houses, then complete cities. You can create a magical tree, then copy
that into a magical wood, then multiply that wood into a magical forest.


### What would I use the 2D objects for?

You could type up poems or stories or pin inspirational quotes and images around your
chill-out room. Or make notes and to-do lists. Write articles or even books. Organise
your photos on gallery walls.

LinkCraft is always running and puts you right back where you were every time you open
or flip to it, just like other 2D apps. So it can literally replace your notes app if
you like.


### Who's it for?

Unlike (or like?) Minecraft, it's aimed at people of any age.



____________________________________



____________________________________
