_This is a description of what I'm working on now, not what the app does yet!_

# ONEXOS

ONEXOS stands for "One Extreme Openworld Sandbox". It's a game that creates a single,
seamless, 3D universe. ONEXOS is always running this space and puts you right back where
you were every time you run it up.

### What's it most like?

It's something like a mix between Minecraft Creative and Garry's Mod. It's aimed at
whole families; at people of any age, so less like Minecraft and Garry's Mod in that
regard!

### What do you do there?

All the usual Open World Sandbox things: build, create and play. Except there's only one
World. You sew chunks of the world, virtual objects and places together into a single,
vast, seamless universe.

Your world objects are sewn into this single global fabric through **links**.

### How do links work?

Links form handles or hooks onto all of your objects in the world. They work a bit like
URLs in the way they point to things in the world, where-ever they may be. So you can
grab and wire direct links to and between any object anywhere.

Every single object you create or see in the world has a link - cities, streets, houses,
rooms, tables, vases, flowers and petals, messages and photos.

Everything can be sewn, pinned, tied and snapped together with everything else via these
links. Everything can be pointed to, picked up, re-used and saved via these links.

Everything you make is in a single unbounded, linked-up world, so you can re-use,
re-mash and re-purpose anything, and join all of your spaces, buildings and games
together in new ways, sharing materials or entire constructions between your creations.

You can link to a city you've built from your virtual garden, which lets you see it and
just walk across into it, or you can link to a leaf you made, and use it elsewhere.

Petals link to flowers, vases to tables, rooms within houses, streets of cities.

--------------------------------------------

### Building worlds with links between objects

Having everything in the world, from photos to cities and from leaves to forests, linked
together allows you to quickly create a potentially huge, single universe.

In this virtual world you can quickly and easily create vast interactive, engaging,
fun, calm, beautiful and imaginative places. It's an endless world of whatever you like.
Use the world for fun or to organise your thoughts; you can build a creative space or a
thinking space.

Make a chill-out room with coloured lights and soft-coloured walls. You could type up
poems or stories or pin inspirational quotes and images around your chill-out room.
Organise your photos on gallery walls. Build your ideal house, then a street of houses,
then construct entire cities. Build forests and
castles. You can create a magical tree, then copy that into a magical wood, then
multiply that wood into a magical forest.

The first thing you may do here is build a room. Just quickly snap
together some panels into a room, then put a panel on the wall as a pinboard space to
pin notes and photos.

With links you can build a city:

 - build a house from panels linked into rooms and rooms linked together
 - add more rooms to build your virtual home, perhaps one room for each of your projects
 - then build a street made of links to more houses
 - add some extra houses by creating one house and dropping its link up the street
 - then build a city with links between the streets

You can build experiences like a gallery:

 - place a large city gallery with walls linking to your favourite photos in their
   albums or photo frames
 - rebuild the gallery to create many rooms organised by theme
 - a picture matching two themes in the gallery can appear twice, with a link from each
   room
 - if you like the gallery's "landscape" room, simply grab its link and paste it onto
   your virtual house
 - now you can wander in easily at any time (but you'll be in the gallery now, so need
   to hit the back button to return home!)

Or a warehouse:

 - create a warehouse store full of links to 3D objects
 - fill it with plants, tables, trees, rocks, houses, castles
 - if you want to use something, you don't walk out with it, you just grab a link to it
   and drop it where you want
 - you can even grab a bit of that castle: if you like its tallest tower, simply take
   its link

You can build entire worlds:

 - create a pretty tree on a little hill
 - replicate a link from your tree to your sister's leaf, repeated all over it
 - then multiply that tree up to a forest on a mountain by dropping hill and tree links
   all over
 - if you change the leaf to red in autumn, all trees that use the leaf go red
   together
 - attach that mountain to the back of your city with just a link, and another link to
   get back again
 - but have a signpost in the forest that also contains the city's link so you can save
   the walk and teleport there!
 - then you can create a highway through the
   hills to link the two towns up in each direction

You can link from the back of your virtual garden to a city you've built. It will appear
right there, and you can then just walk across into it. If you want to be able to walk
back again, you'll need a link back! (Otherwise, use the back button.) There's no fixed
grid, you are completely in control of the topology of your world.

You can save links to anything you see for later use, like a whole castle, a tower, or a
brick in the tower. You can save the link to a leaf you made, then use it repeatedly all
over a tree. You can grab a link to just the top of a tower you've made, and dot that
mini-tower around your castle. If you pin a flag to one tower, it appears on all; if you
change the colour of the leaf to red in the autumn, all instances will change at once.
(Of course, you can also make copies.)

### Everything is live or interactive here

Things in this world have physical properties: every house you make can have doors and
windows that swing open and shut. You can build a wheeled buggy to jump into, that can
roll faster and faster down the street from the top of the hill.  Make a game of
skittles or a game where you try to build a tower without it falling over. Because
there's only one world, you can just sew these together into a game park, where your
skittle balls can also knock over your tower! You can create a drawbridge for your
castle pulled up on chains wrapped around pulleys.

You can actually put in a special link from a door object to a button object so that
pushing or standing on the button opens the door.

### Doing 2D stuff in 3D

Panels can be used to create notes and photos. These can be pinned to the walls
or even left lying around on the floor.

 - if you want to share a poster from your virtual bedroom, simply grab its link and pin
   it to the kitchen pinboard
 - now if you change anything on the poster, the one in the kitchen changes, too
 - drop in a link from your scrapbook of notes and photos to one of your notes on
   the desk in your virtual study
 - pin a link in the middle of your virtual kitchen wall to one of your scrapbook photos
 - keep a shopping list in the virtual kitchen
 - you can quickly make a current shopping list by grabbing just the links to the
   items of the main one that you plan to fetch today

You can easily build a new poster by simply collecting and dropping some links into it.
These could be links to paragraph or message panels that you find elsewhere, links to
messages or links to photos you like on someone's wall. You can of course, link to
bigger things, like other posters, to complete 3D objects, or to an entire virtual city!

With panels:

 - create a message panel on the kitchen wall, which you can grab a link to to put
   in your rooms
 - create a notes board
 - create a billboard with links to text and images, describing an upcoming meeting or
   event
 - remind yourself by putting the billboard up around the city, by simply dropping its
   link down
 - if the event time changes, when you edit the billboard, all instances around update
 - create signs pointing the way to landmarks, containing a link to allow direct
   teleporting

Or build a city library:

 - next to the city gallery on the high street, put down a library full of links
   collecting the best pinboards, billboards and inspirational messages you have created
   or discovered
 - maybe the holiday plans, favourite recipes or music posters you have in your rooms
 - collect an array of links to snippets of some text and images that you find useful for
   a short story you're writing
 - sit in the library and surround yourself with those snippets while you compose it

---------------------
