_This is a description of what I'm working on now, not what the app does yet!_

# OnexOS

OnexOS (maybe that stands for "One Extreme Openworld Sandbox"?) is an operating system
that creates a single, seamless, 3D virtual world. This virtual world is manifested
across all running instances of OnexOS. The OS is always running this space and puts you
right back where you were every time you open it.

### What's it most like?

It's something like a mix between Minecraft Creative servers and Second Life. It's aimed
at whole families; at people of any age, so less like Minecraft and Second Life in that
regard!

### What do you do there?

All the usual Open World Sandbox or virtual world things: meet, chat, share, build,
co-create, work and play.

### Why is it an operating system?

Everyone running OnexOS owns their own chunks of the world that we're all building
together. We then all sew these virtual objects and places together into a single, vast,
seamless universe, owned by all of us. And that universe is running across each and all
of our devices, through this being their operating system.

Our own world objects are sewn into this single global fabric through **links**.

### How do links work?

Links form handles or hooks onto all of your objects in the world. They work a bit like
URLs in the way they point to things in the world, where-ever they may be. So we can
grab, wire and share direct links to and between any object owned by anyone, anywhere.

Every single object you create or see in the shared world has a link - cities, streets,
houses, rooms, tables, vases, flowers and petals, messages and photos.

Everything can be sewn, pinned, tied and snapped together with everything else via these
links. Everything can be pointed to, picked up, re-used and saved via these links.

Everything you make is in a single unbounded, linked-up world, so you can re-use,
re-mash and re-purpose anything, and join all of your spaces, buildings and games
together in new ways, sharing materials or entire constructions between your creations.

I can link to a city you've built from my virtual garden, which lets me see it and just
walk across into it, or you can link to a leaf I made, and use it yourself.

Petals link to flowers, vases to tables, rooms within houses, streets of cities.

### How do I control who can see and change my stuff?

Everything you build stays owned by you. You get to decide who can see or who can change
your stuff: your objects can be set up to be seen only by your family or by the public.
You can set up a virtual family kitchen with a message board, or a living room with a
photo wall, all visible only to you and your family.

### What's the cost?

There is none. Free and open software and protocols.

There's no account set-up, and no adverts (unless someone creates a billboard
somewhere!). You can all just jump in and start co-creating!

Being open, it's free from lock-in to "walled gardens".

--------------------------------------------

### Building worlds together, with links between objects

Having everything in the world, from photos to cities and from leaves to forests, linked
together allows us all to quickly create a potentially huge, single, shared universe.

In this virtual world we can quickly and easily co-create vast interactive, engaging,
fun, calm, beautiful and imaginative places. It's an endless world of whatever you like.
Use the world for fun or to organise your thoughts; you can build a creative space, a
thinking space, or a meeting space.

Make a chill-out room with coloured lights and soft-coloured walls. You could type up
poems or stories or pin inspirational quotes and images around your chill-out room.
Organise your photos on gallery walls. Build your ideal house, then a street of houses
with your family and friends, then construct entire cities together. Build forests and
castles. You can create a magical tree, then copy that into a magical wood, then
multiply that wood into a magical forest.

The first thing you may do here is build a family room to share stuff. Just quickly snap
together some panels into a room, then put a panel on the wall as a pinboard space to
pin messages and photos. Everyone can visit this room on their own device and will see
each other and can say "Hi!", then add to the pinboard.

With links you can build a city:

 - build a house from panels linked into rooms and rooms linked together
 - add more rooms to build your virtual family home, perhaps one room for each of you
 - then build a street made of links to all the houses of your family and friends
 - add some extra houses by creating one house and dropping its link up the street
 - then build a city with links to the streets of other families

You can build shared experiences like a gallery:

 - place a large city gallery with walls linking to everyone's favourite photos in their
   albums or photo frames
 - rebuild the gallery to create many rooms organised by theme
 - a picture matching two themes in the gallery can appear twice, with a link from each
   room
 - if you like the gallery's "landscape" room, simply grab its link and paste it onto
   your own virtual house
 - now you can wander in easily at any time (but you'll be in the gallery now, so need
   to hit the back button to return home!)

Or a warehouse:

 - create a warehouse store full of links to 3D objects to share with each other
 - fill it with plants, tables, trees, rocks, houses, castles
 - if you want to use something, you don't walk out with it, you just grab a link to it
   and drop it where you want
 - you can even grab a bit of that castle: if you like its tallest tower, simply take
   its link

You can build entire worlds:

 - create a pretty tree on a little hill
 - replicate a link from your tree to your sister's leaf, repeated all over it
 - then multiply that tree up to a forest on a mountain by dropping hill and tree links
   all over
 - if your sister changes the leaf to red in autumn, all trees that use the leaf go red
   together
 - attach that mountain to the back of your city with just a link, and another link to
   get back again
 - but have a signpost in the forest that also contains the city's link so you can save
   the walk and teleport there!
 - if you visit a fantasy village made by a different group of folk, and like it, share
   its link with the other families in the chat room
 - then if everyone in each town agrees, you can all co-create a highway through the
   hills to link the two towns up in each direction

You can link from the back of your virtual garden to a city you've built. It will appear
right there, and you can then just walk across into it. If you want to be able to walk
back again, you'll need a link back! (Otherwise, use the back button.) There's no fixed
grid, you are completely in control of the topology of your world.

You can save links to anything you see for later use, like a whole castle, a tower, or a
brick in the tower. You can save the link to a leaf you made, then use it repeatedly all
over a tree. You can grab a link to just the top of a tower you've made, and dot that
mini-tower around your castle. If you pin a flag to one tower, it appears on all; if you
change the colour of the leaf to red in the autumn, all instances will change at once.
(Of course, you can also make copies.)

### Everything is live or interactive here

Things in this world have physical properties: every house you make can have doors and
windows that swing open and shut. You can make a windmill whose vanes turn when it's
windy. You can build a wheeled buggy to jump into, that can roll faster and faster down
the street from the top of the hill.  Make a game of skittles or a game where you try to
build a tower without it falling over. Because there's only one world, you can just sew
these together into a game park, where my skittle balls can also knock over your tower!

You can create a drawbridge for your castle pulled up on chains wrapped around pulleys.

You can actually put in a special link from a door object to a button object so that
pushing or standing on the button opens the door.

### Doing 2D stuff in 3D

Panels can be used to create notes and photos. These can be shared, pinned to the walls
or even left lying around on the floor.

 - if you want to share a poster from your virtual bedroom, simply grab its link and pin
   it to the kitchen pinboard
 - now if you change anything on the poster, everyone in the kitchen can see that change,
   too
 - drop in a link from your scrapbook of notes and photos to one of your mum's notes on
   the desk in her virtual study
 - pin a link in the middle of your virtual kitchen wall to one of your scrapbook photos
 - keep a shopping list in the virtual kitchen that everyone can see when going out
 - anyone can quickly make a personal shopping list by grabbing just the links to the
   items of the shared one that they plan to fetch themselves

You can easily build a new poster by simply collecting and dropping some links into it.
These could be links to paragraph or message panels that you find elsewhere, links to
messages or links to photos you like on someone's wall. You can of course, link to
bigger things, like other posters, to complete 3D objects, or to an entire virtual city!

With panels:

 - create a message panel on the kitchen wall, which everyone can grab a link to to put
   in their own rooms
 - create a message board for several families
 - create a billboard with links to text and images, describing an upcoming meeting or
   event
 - remind everyone by putting the billboard up around the city, by simply dropping its
   link down
 - if the event time changes, when you edit the billboard, all instances around update
 - create signs pointing the way to landmarks, containing a link to allow direct
   teleporting

Or build a city library:

 - next to the city gallery on the high street, put down a library full of links
   collecting the best pinboards, billboards and inspirational messages you have created
   or discovered
 - maybe the holiday plans, favourite recipes or music posters you each have in your rooms
 - collect an array of links to snippets of some text and images that you find useful for
   a short story you're writing
 - sit in the library and surround yourself with those snippets while you compose it

---------------------
