
# OnexOS

OnexOS manifests an open 3D universe for all of us, and our families and friends, to
co-create virtual places and to share and explore together. Everything we all make in
OnexOS is in a single seamless, unbounded universe, shared by all of us.

The OnexOS universe is built from a single distributed scenegraph, with scene elements
all tied together with links like URLs. The distributed scenegraph owes its seamlessness -
between your leaves on my tree, or between my forest and your city - to being sewn
together by these links.

You build everything in the OnexOS universe from simple coloured cubes and panels that
can have text or images on them. These are then linked together into the universe that
we're going to build together. With just these basic starting materials you can:

Build a house from panels linked into rooms and rooms linked together. Then build a
street made of links to all the houses of your family and friends. Then build a city
with links to the streets of other families. Leave messages around linked to the walls
of the family virtual home kitchen. Then collect those onto a pinboard by grabbing and
pasting their links. Start up a 2D chatroom between families which has links to lists of
messages and people. But then meet in a 3D room to chat as well; a room links to the
people present. Create a billboard with links to text paragraphs and images, describing
an upcoming meeting or event. Put the billboard up around the city by simply dropping
its link down. Create signs pointing the way to landmarks, containing a link to allow
direct teleporting. Put down a library on the high street full of links to documents you
have each created, like favourite recipes or music reviews. Next to that, a large city
gallery with many rooms with walls linking to everyone's favourite photos. Create a
warehouse store full of links to 3D objects to share with others, like plants, tables,
trees, rocks, houses, castles. You can create a pretty tree on a little hill, then
multiply that up to a forest on a mountain by dropping hill and tree links all over.
Attach that mountain to the back of your city with just a single link. If you visit
another city made by a different group of folk, and like it, share its link with the
other families in the chat room. Then if everyone in each city agrees, you can all
co-create a highway through the hills to link the two cities up in each direction.

Everything you build stays owned by you, on your own device. You get to decide who can
see or who can change your stuff: your objects can be set up to be seen only by your
family or by the public. You can set up a family photo wall, or a message board or to-do
list in a virtual family room, that are all shared just over the family WiFi. You can
share objects or link objects together directly between your family's devices.  There's
no account set-up, and no adverts (unless someone creates a billboard somewhere!). You
can all just jump in and start co-creating!

### How's it going?

It's early days - I just have panels with text on them rendering in Vulkan on Linux so
far! Watch this space...

### Read more

See <a href="http://object.network/index-meta-web.html">this article for a deep
description</a> of what I'm up to here!
____________________________________




